Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this lesson we are going to take a quick look at the new performance tool that react released in
sixteen point ten.
The profiler API so this profile API is just a quick little component that allows us to check how much
time it takes are components to render or mount.
It's very similar to the dev tools profiler that we've used extensively already in this section of the
course.
But this is something new and I want to show everyone how to use it.
So in this case you have to make sure that you are running at least react sixteen point ten and the
easiest way to check which version you have running is to go into your terminal go into your project
and go into your client profile folder.
There's a chance that you are in your base folder and at this point of course you probably already have
the backend node server folder setup.
So as you remember our client folder is a child of that folder.
So just go into that and this is where our front end react application and it's packages are hosted.
So what we can do is simply use other NPM or yarn and use the list function to check against what version
of react we have.
So in my case I have sixteen point ten point two.
If you don't have this just upgrade the version using the NPM or a yarn and upgrade it to the latest
version or the version that you want that is at least sixteen point ten.
So let's dive right into how we use it so inside of our code here we want to go to a component or page
that we want to test.
So in my case I want to test the home page because what I really want to test is the directory component.
So to do so we just simply import in the profiler from react.
And it is a new component that we can use to use it.
We just want to wrap it around whichever component we're looking to test.
So in my case I want to test the directory component so by doing this I am now wrapping around the directory
and the profile will give me information about the time it takes to render this section of our DOM tree.
Now the profile component is going to take two properties.
The first is an I.D. which is a string.
And this is just an identifier that we can use to distinguish which profiler is logging which data because
you can actually have multiple profiles all around your application.
You can nest them within each other.
You've just given an I.D. so that when you log out this information you know which profiler is logging
which information.
So here I'm going to say that this is our directory and then the second property you're gonna pass it
is an on render call.
Now this is going to be a function and this function is going to receive numerous arguments not all
of them are important but the first three are important.
One key thing to remember here is that this is not an object so you cannot destructive them.
You must either remember the order in which it's important or at the very least check the documentation.
Now I'm only going to use the firstly because I think they are the most important but I will link you
the documentation to this profiler so you can see what else you have access to.
In this case the first three are I.D. phase and the actual duration
what we're going to do is we're going to console log an object that has these three things that we're
getting in our function.
Now the idea of course is the string identifier that we passed in the phase is going to be either the
Mount phase or a re render phase and then the actual duration is going to be the duration time it took
to in milliseconds to actually render out our component.
Now the phase as we know with our life cycles our component is either mounting or it's updating.
So those are the only two phases you're going to see.
So that's what I mean when I say re render it's just an update phase.
So now that we save this we go back to our application and since I'm on my homepage you'll see that
here an object got logged out and this is our object you'll see here the idea is that directory string
the phase of course is the mount because our application refreshed when I saved and then it mounted
our director component on and the actual duration here we see is 40 milliseconds.
So this is the amount of time it actually took to do this.
If I navigate away and I come back you'll see that it will be log again.
But now even though we're still on our Mount phase our actual duration is shorter because there are
certain optimizations within react that it's making even though it's re mounting.
So even then though a difference of 30 milliseconds is very insignificant.
This is only again important if you notice there are slow downs and you want to optimize the profiler
is just another tool that you can use in your performance analysis tool belt.
And now that you know how to use it you can use it in conjunction with of course the performance profile
or dev tool that we've seen before in earlier lessons in this performance section.
But this is just another tool.
So with that try it out.
Look at the documentation see what else is available to you inside of that on render callback.
Play around with it and again optimize improve performance only where needed.
Good luck everyone.
And I will see you in the next lesson.